[Docs] Menu refactor (#6216)
grommet/hpe-design-system: apps/docs/src/pages/components/menu.mdx

| **4**  | **Divider**        | Separates groups of related actions.                                 |                         Optional                         | --                                                                                                                                                                                  |

## Variants

### Default

A standard dropdown menu with a visible text label. The implicit chevron indicator communicates expand/collapse behavior. Use when space allows a descriptive label and the menu's purpose benefits from a visible name, such as an "Actions" overflow menu in a page header or user account menu.

<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/master/apps/docs/src/examples/components/menu/MenuDefaultExample.js"
  docs="https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#props"
  height={{ min: 'small' }}
>
  <MenuDefaultExample />
</Example>

### Icon only

> A compact menu with an icon-only trigger and no visible label. The icon communicates the menu's purpose — for example, an ellipsis for overflow actions or a gear for settings. Always provide an accessible label via `a11yTitle`. Use in space-constrained contexts such as table row actions, toolbars, or card overflow menus where a recognized icon clearly communicates intent.

Reviewer: We should be recommending aria-label instead of a11yTitle. We want to move away from using a11yTitle and instead use aria-label because that is the native HTML property.
```suggestion
A compact menu with an icon-only trigger and no visible label. The icon communicates the menu's purpose — for example, an ellipsis for overflow actions or a gear for settings. Always provide an accessible label via `aria-label`. Use in space-constrained contexts such as table row actions, toolbars, or card overflow menus where a recognized icon clearly communicates intent.
```

Author: Thanks good to know, I'll note that to improve the agents intructions.

> A compact menu with an icon-only trigger and no visible label. The icon communicates the menu's purpose — for example, an ellipsis for overflow actions or a gear for settings. Always provide an accessible label via `a11yTitle`. Use in space-constrained contexts such as table row actions, toolbars, or card overflow menus where a recognized icon clearly communicates intent.

Reviewer: We mention using this variant for toolbars but we have a separate toolbar variant, a little confusing.

Author: true, i've removed it

### Icon only

A compact menu represented by an icon, such as “more” or “settings”, ideal for space-constrained layouts where actions are easily recognized visually.
A compact menu with an icon-only trigger and no visible label. The icon communicates the menu's purpose — for example, an ellipsis for overflow actions or a gear for settings. Always provide an accessible label via `a11yTitle`. Use in space-constrained contexts such as table row actions, toolbars, or card overflow menus where a recognized icon clearly communicates intent.

<MenuIconExample />
<Example
  code="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/master/apps/docs/src/examples/components/menu/MenuIconExample.js"
  docs="https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#props"
  height={{ min: 'small' }}
>
  <MenuIconExample />
</Example>

### Toolbar

A menu styled to integrate seamlessly with a toolbar.

<MenuToolbarExample />

> ## Organizing menu items

Reviewer: Should we show a menu with dividers as a variant? Seems weird that we don't show it but then it appears in the do/don't section

Author: That's a good question. When we first refactored this page we agreed that we would not add things that were not there before, but now with the new workflow we are changing that a bit. @halocline also mentioned wanting an example of menu using other types of button like primary and secondary. I'll play around with that.

Author: I added those

| **3a** | **Item label**     | Communicates the specific action to the user.                        | <span><Checkmark a11yTitle="true" size="small" /></span> | --                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **3b** | **Item icon**      | Provides a quick visual reference for the action.                    |                         Optional                         | --                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **4**  | **Divider**        | Separates groups of related actions.                                 |                         Optional                         | --                                                                                                                                                                                  |

## Variants

### Default

> A standard dropdown menu with a visible text label. The implicit chevron indicator communicates expand/collapse behavior. Use when space allows a descriptive label and the menu's purpose benefits from a visible name, such as an "Actions" overflow menu in a page header or user account menu.

Reviewer 2: just a soft suggestion 

A dropdown menu with a visible text label and chevron indicator that communicates expand/collapse behavior. Use when space allows and the menu's purpose benefits from a descriptive label, such as an "Actions" menu in a page header or a user account menu.

Reviewer 3: Updated via this [commit](https://github.com/grommet/hpe-design-system/pull/6216/changes/cd9adc405efcfc6b19b5924a9686bc27451cc5dd)

**Configuring** — Actions allowing a user to set and modify attributes of a resource.

- View [resource] details
- Edit [resource]
- Add [item] to [resource]
- Remove [item] from [resource]
- Assign [resource] to [another resource]
- Add [resource] to group

**Executing** — Actions providing the ability for a user to act upon a resource.

- Launch [resource]
- Power on/off [resource]
- Reset [resource]
- Update/upgrade software/firmware version for [resource]

**Transferring** — Actions enabling a user to share or consume data related to a resource.

- Download [resource] data
- Share [resource] with [user]
- Send [resource] to [user]
- Notify [user] about [resource]

## Content guidelines

- Give the menu a clear, descriptive title that conveys its purpose rather than a generic label such as "Menu." For example, use "Account information" for a menu containing actions like "Change username" or "Reset password."
- Keep menu item labels short and action-oriented using simple, concise wording — for example, "Settings" or "Logout" — so users immediately understand the action that will be performed when they click.

## Accessibility

> Accessibility features such as screen reader messages are automatically built into Menu. By default, these messages are "Open Menu" and "Close Menu." If a more specific message is needed, apply a custom [`a11yTitle`](https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#a11yTitle) or [`messages`](https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#messages) prop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessibility features such as screen reader messages are automatically built into Menu. By default, these messages are "Open Menu" and "Close Menu." If a more specific message is needed, apply a custom [`aria-label`](https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#a11yTitle). For internationalization use the [`messages`](https://v2.grommet.io/menu?theme=hpe#messages) prop.
```

> Always provide an `a11yTitle` for icon-only menus so screen reader users understand the button's purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Always provide an `aria-label` for icon-only menus so screen reader users understand the button's purpose.
```

### Keyboard support

| Key                         | Action                                                                       |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Enter / Space**           | Opens or closes the menu.                                                    |
| **Escape**                  | Closes the menu and returns focus to the trigger button.                     |
| **Arrow Down / Arrow Up**   | Moves focus between menu items when the menu is open.                        |

### ARIA

| Attribute        | Value          | Condition                                                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aria-haspopup`  | `true`         | Always present on the trigger button.                                            |
| `aria-expanded`  | `true / false` | Reflects whether the drop container is currently open or closed.                 |

> | `aria-label`     | descriptive string | Applied when the trigger button uses an icon only with no visible label text. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `aria-label`     | descriptive string | Defaults to "Open Menu" or "Close Menu". This can be adjusted by passing an `aria-label` or using `messages`. |
```
